Since red is the color of blood, it has historically been associated with sacrifice, danger, and courage.


Orange is the color most associated with amusement, the unconventional, extroversion, warmth, fire, energy, activity, danger, taste and aroma.


Yellow is a color associated with the sun. It symbolizes optimism, energy, joy, happiness and friendship. It might also stand for intellect. On the contrary, yellow can indicate jealousy, betrayal, illness and danger. 


Green is a dominant color in nature, evoking thoughts of growth, renewal, and life. It is also associated with refreshment, peace, rest, and security.


Blue is the color of the ocean and the sky; it often symbolizes serenity, stability, inspiration, or wisdom.


The color purple is often associated with royalty, nobility, luxury, power, and ambition.


The color pink is thought to be a calming color associated with love, kindness, and femininity. 


In Western cultures, the color white is often associated with weddings, hospitals, and angels and is often used to convey a sense of purity, cleanliness, and peacefulness. 


Black has a wide range of associations. It can be linked with death, mourning, evil magic, and darkness, but it can also symbolize elegance, wealth, restraint, and power.


A monochromatic color scheme is when you take one hue and create other elements from different shades and tints of it.


An analogous color scheme is when you use three colors located beside one another on the color wheel.


A complementary color scheme is when you use opposite color pairs to maximize contrast.


A split complementary color scheme, or compound harmony color scheme, is when you add colors from either side of your complementary color pair to soften contrast.


A triadic color scheme is when you take three colors which are equally distant on the color wheel. These colors may not be vibrant, but the scheme can be as it maintains harmony and high contrast.


A tetradic color scheme is when you make four colors that are two sets of complementary pairs and choose one dominant color. This allows rich, interesting designs. However, watch the balance between warm and cool colors.


A square color scheme is a variant of tetradic; you find four colors evenly spaced on the color wheel. Unlike tetradic, square schemes can work well if you use all four colors evenly.


Color theory is the collection of rules and guidelines which designers use to communicate with users through appealing color schemes in visual interfaces. To pick the best colors every time, designers use a color wheel and refer to extensive collected knowledge about human optical ability, psychology, culture and more.


A color wheel or color circle is an abstract illustrative organization of color hues around a circle, which shows the relationships between primary colors, secondary colors, tertiary colors etc.


Sir Isaac Newton established color theory when he invented the color wheel in 1666. Newton understood colors as human perceptions—not absolute qualities—of wavelengths of light.


Aristotle developed the first known theory of color believing it was sent by God from heaven through celestial rays of light.


Humans see colors in light waves. Mixing light—or the additive color mixing model—allows you to create colors by mixing red, green and blue light sources of various intensities. The more light you add, the brighter the color mix becomes. If you mix all three colors of light, you get pure, white light.


Any color you see on a physical surface (paper, signage, packaging, etc.) uses the subtractive color mixing model. Traditionally, the primary colors used in the subtractive process were red, yellow and blue, as these were the colors painters mixed to get all other hues. As color printing emerged, they were subsequently replaced with cyan, magenta, yellow and key/black (CMYK), as this color combo enables printers to produce a wider variety of colors on paper.


Warm colors are generally associated with energy, brightness, and action. 


Cool colors are often identified with calm, peace, and serenity.